in the palaces surrounding the Vatican
these huge feasts were commonplace
putting immense pressure on the kitchens
the cooks developed several strategies
to come one was to grow their own
produce
so Cardinals often had their own
vineyards and market gardens on the
hills of central Rome today in a quiet
side streets on the Janna column Hill
one such garden still survives and is
cared for by the nuns at the convent of
the Sacred Heart algo usually our sister
Mary Cobley welcomed me another way to
give the cooks of fighting chance
when preparing this massive meals was to
alternate hot courses from the kitchen
with cold dishes prepared in advance and
displayed on the credenza Oh side milk
dripping look at the juice the cool sits
on the cadenza would usually has been
vegetable or fruit dishes and like all
Italian cooks scuffie is at pains to
emphasize the importance of eating fresh
food that's in season I wish they could
go live in my garden
there's Cappy recipe for a credenza dish
which it uses over jeans and we took our
booty to a table under the trees since
the money I shall we see what we can do
with those melons on a smoke your own
garden so there Pilcher's can you help
me and chop that a bit of the hurts
because we need them that then stick has
that heavy look so that you can do it
later then Oh computer here then we
spread them here then we take a bit of
flour back and we sprinkle it visual
idea we took like test
yeah right see that there will be the
flower on each side and and now it comes
the assembly so so easy is the dish look
so we take them this you know yeah we
put a little of good olive oil and
you're plenty or you are plenty of olive
oil
some holy trees is here oh we ate plenty
of olive trees uh-huh and we do a layer
of this then we start with the herbs you
chopped a little bit of a higher chopped
we have a little parsley here and put
this and Libby's of Nick tenly this is
all the wide mint very flavor very nice
they use the usual in Tuscany to eat
with porcini in fact they don't need
porcini without a patella a bit of
clothes he was fun with all their spices
and then here we go cinnamon now look at
this sugar sugar again and there'll be
the sort le bit of oil on top now
another layer and nothing there it is
waste and crisscross yes let me put one
yes please
now put your first the herbs yes and now
I get something very special from your
garden here this is the top of fennel
and which we often loved alumni liver
and a little bit of oil boy but at this
stage comes also just a little bit of
vinegar and it gives it to the bite yes
and now you can go down in the kitchen
cook put it in the US yes thank you very
much thank you
of course many of the saints growing in
this garden today came from the Americas
and we're not widely known in Scrappy's
time tomatoes were considered inedible
and potatoes peppers and even chocolate
and yet to find their way to a European
kitchens since the money let's see the
ready product yes wonderful
mmm sure miss Eva yes let's see now it
is it
hmm as nomads used to taste the
aubergine in completely different way
that's very good very very sugar makes
it really palpable it's gorgeous I am
delighted